# Overview 
 
Introduction to database 
CRUD (create, read, update and delete)

1) installing WAMP / SQL lite on your machine 

2) using python (pandas) and SQL Lite (which you don't need to download)

3) connect to a mySQL database 

Labs associated with each video. 
No assignment. 

# Video 1 

SQL is a text-based language that allows you to manipulate databases

Install and run database in your machine 
This class is good for applied databases module 

Why using databse? create consistent data, dealing with very big datasets

SQL = sequential query language 
many favours: Mysql (on server on your machine), sql lite (on python)

other databased: Oracle, mongoDB, Postgres 

Wamp --> windows 
Mysql / mySQLWorkbench for mac/linus 

SQL is ok for this modules, you need mySQL for the next one 
You go to Wampserver 64

after installation, you get a green logo at the bottom of your desktop. 
Go to MySQL console, it takes you into the terminal where you can start querying. 
You can use the graphic part in phpmyadmin (always on the logo)

MySQL can have a number of databases. Each database can have a number of tables 
tables have columns with different data types 
you can apply CURD on rows. 

For pandas all data can be read on memory to perform any operation. With Database, the data is on the disc so you can deal with more data. 

with sqllite there is only one database. 

show to open the database
create 
use xxx to use a dabatabase 

insert 
select * from xxx 
update 
delete 

ctrl + C to annull any action in the terminal 

**concepts** 
primary keys
multiple tables and relationships 
foreign keys 


## Video 2: SQLite 

Built into python, no need to install anything 
import sqlite3
get the connection con = sqlite.connect(db_name)
get cursor cur = con.cursor()
execute cur.execture ("CREATE TABLE(...,...,...)")
con.close

when updating, after you need to commit -- or set autocommit as param
con.execute
con.commit()

avoid SQL injection. use placeholders. Get the data as tuples 

queries return a result. you can use FETCHONE to get one result or FETCHALL to get all results. 

official documentation: https://docs.python.org/3/library/sqlite3.html 


Always add data with variables, never with direct injections. 

not dealt with: 
update, delete, drop table, view all tables, dealing with mutiple tables. 


## Video 3: etxra: python and mysql 

lecture for web services and appliations 

how to we write python that connects to a database that already exissts? 

you can use mysql-connector, but also mongoDB or others 

you import the package and import the database you want to connect.
you need the connection, where you connect to the database

you need a cursor, an object where the data is stored while you use use it. 

if you don't close the connector, you can hit resourse leaks. this will cause your sysem to crash. 

always pass the values in variables and the variables in the stataements. otherwise, sql injections can happen. 

if you do any update/create/delete functions, commit after. 

After reads, you don't need to commit 

a lot of stuff, see labs to work with a database in disc from python. 
