# Video 1: getting data from CSO. 

A lot of data. Go to census 2022 - summary and find population by single year of age 
You want population by single year of age, not age group 

https://data.cso.ie 
gov ie also has a lot of useful data 

You can download in json stat or csv. csv works better and is easier to read. 


Now we have the data with all the value in one line 
What do we want: 

- drop columns we don't want

make a list of the columns you want to get rid of 
df.drop(columns=list, inplace = True)

- drop rown you don't need 

df = df[df['Single Year of Age'] != "All ages"]


- replace text to adjust format 

df["single year of age"] = df['Single year of age'].str.replace('Under 1 year', '0')
df["single year of age"] = df['Single year of age'].str.replace('\D', ' ', regex = True)  // replace aything that is a charactwer with null 

you also want to cocnvert the objects in ints 

df["single year of age"] = df['Single year of age'].astype('int64')


- use pivot tables with pandas. You can also try with Crosstables, but they don't give what you need now. 
Here you want to get the age used as index, and the rest of the data following. 

df.pivot_table 



# Video 2: statistics 

Using statistics to analyse data in Pandas. 
Some libraries can be used for analysis: Numpy, Pandas, Scipy, Statsmodels, Scikit-learn (machine learning), matplotlib and seaborne 

Concepts --> 


MODE, to_list, describe, count (similar to length)


population_anal.py to see what is going wrong 


# Video 3: Variance

Variance and standard deviation: a way to analize how spread out your values are 

VARIANCE: average of the square of the differences from the mean. Measures how diverse the data is 

STANDARD DEVIATION: square root of variance 
Generally standard deviation takes 78% of the data. 

pandas: col.std() 
numpy: np.std()

WEIGHED STANDARD DEVIATION: you take a weighing on an average. 
you get the average of the indexes and use the weights 

See jupiter notebook weighted stats 
