# Class 7 

## 1. AI and ML - Classification 

packages useful for AI and machine learning

- computers are good at following instructions 
- humans are good at finding patterns 
- AI tries to do what computer cannot traditionally do well. Using past data to predict future data 

how to use AI and machine learning? 
- Use decision trees --> this does not work with big and complex data. they are good for small datasets, and they are still used for small classification tasks 

- machine learning: you have some data you know and use it to train a model so that it can work with unknown data. There are a lot of different methods. 
    - supervised learning: with labelled data 
    - unsupervised learning: from big amounts of data, the algorithm finds patterns 
    - reinforcement learning 

slides are on github 

there are many machine learning libraries in python 
scikit-learn
tensorflow
pytorch 

Algoritms that you can use: 
- classification (decision treees, K nearest neighbours)
- regression algoritms (linear regrression...)
- clustering algorithms 

scikit-learn --> see cheatsheet on choosing your estimator https://scikit-learn.org/stable/machine_learning_map.html 

split your data with sciki-learn 

Read about decision trees on scikit learn 

see code about decision trees. you need to import the right classifier and assign it to a variable. the rest of the code is the same. 

from sklearn import tree


clf = tree.DecisionTreeClassifier()
clf = clf.fit(X, Y)
clf.predict([[2., 2.]])


## 2. Regression 

Correlation: relationship between two or more values. 
Can be positive or negative, strong or 

- cocoeff in numpy gives you the correlation coefficient between 0 and 1 
- ith pandas you can use df.corr()

Regression is another way of finding patterns between 2 or more variables. 
--> fit a line: lmplot in seaborn does scatter plot and regression at the same time 

